# Intro to Design Patterns (GoF Patterns)

* **Design Pattern** -> A general solution to a set of problems.
* These patterns are discovered, not invented. Patterns are discovered by reading a lot of good code.
* You have some problem that needs to be solved; you look at how a very similar problem was solved and try to do the
  same if the solution has been successful.
* Use case of a pattern:
    * Solve the given problem.
    * Communicate with other programmers about your approach.
* Patterns can be implemented in so many different ways.
* Pattern turns into design and code implements the design.
* In real world, the patterns are usually mixed up and not like how they are shown in the catalogs. For example, an
  object might be shared by two different design patterns that do two distinct things.
* Context is important to recognize a design pattern. It might look like the code implements a design which is a pattern
  but that may not be the case depending on the context.
* An agile principle is to write self documenting code. Code with separate documentation fails most of the time because
  the documentation will most likely be out of date.
* Pattern categories based on purpose of pattern:
    * Creational: deals with creation of objects.
    * Structural: deals with organization of things; and interaction between classes (Compiletime patterns).
    * Behavioral: deals with interaction between classes (Runtime patterns).
* Pattern categories based on scope:
    * class: they use inheritance to extend an implementation to add additional features or override existing ones
      (subclassing or superclassing).
    * object: they are implemented entirely using interfaces.
* Majority of the patterns have object scope and are implemented using interface based programming.
* Cons of using design patterns:
    * Harder to debug code because of the heavy use of interfaces.
    * Adds complexity to the code.
* **Fool Me Once rule**: Implement something as simple as possible at first. Later on, if we have to make a change in
  that code (fooled me once) and if it would have been easier to make the change if we used a design pattern there, use
  that pattern then.
* Patterns usually come into the code via refactoring. Usually we do not start out with patterns.
* An object should be able to do what it needs to do, without the outside world knowing about how the object does it.
* **Replacement Principle**: If you want your code to be maintainable, then it must be possible at any time to
  completely throw away the current implementation.
* Don't think of an object as a clump of data that is controlled by a set of functions. (**Wrong way of thinking about
  objects**).
* An object should be defined by the work it accomplishes. Think about methods first and define the data to get the work
  done.

